README.md, before:

# cargo-nx

## Introduction

`cargo-nx` is a simple build command for projects based on this organization's libraries and tools, to avoid having to mess with makefiles, scripts or having several copies of the same linker/target files for every single project, while also including support for generating various formats after projects are compiled.

## Installation

Assuming you have `cargo` installed, it's just a matter two steps.

1) Install `xargo`:

    ```bash
    cargo install xargo
    ```

2) Install `cargo-nx`:

    ```bash
    cargo install cargo-nx --git https://github.com/aarch64-switch-rs/cargo-nx
    ```

## Usage

First of all, the program can be executed as `cargo-nx` or simply as a cargo subcommand, `cargo nx`. It's quite similar to the normal `cargo build` subcommand.

Available parameters/flags:

- `-r`, `--release`: Builds on release profile, same as the normal `cargo build --release` option.

- `-p <path>`, `--path=<path>`: Specifies a path with a crate to build (containing `Cargo.toml`, etc.), since the current directory is used by default otherwise.

- `-tp <triple>`, `--triple=<triple>`: Specifies the target triple, which is "aarch64-none-elf" by default.

- `-ctg`, `--use-custom-target`: Notifies the program to not use the default target JSON/linker script, which can be used to use custom ones.

- `-v`, `--verbose`: Displays extra information during the build process.

### Build formats

Build format fields used for building must be placed placed inside `[package.metadata.nx.<format>]` in `Cargo.toml`. These fields vary depending on the project's format.

The program itself detects the target format when parsing `Cargo.toml`. Note that multiple formats at the same time are not currently supported.

Projects without specific build format fields, like libraries, can also be compiled. This can be useful to later generate custom executables instead of being generated by this subcommand.

#### NRO

Projects which generate homebrew NRO binaries don't have any mandatory fields, but only optional ones.

- Example:

```toml
[package]
name = "Project"
version = "0.1.0"
authors = ["XorTroll"]
edition = "2018"

[package.metadata.nx.nro]
romfs = "romfs_dir"
icon = "icon.jpg"
nacp = { name = "Sample project", author = "XorTroll", version = "0.1 beta" }
```

> Note: the `romfs` and `icon` fields must point to items located relative to the project's directory

The fields present on the `nacp` object, all of them optional, are the following:

| Field             | Description                                       | Default value              |
|:----------------- |:-------------------------------------------------:| --------------------------:|
| name              | The application name                              | Unknown Application        |
| author            | The application author                            | Unknown Author             |
| version           | The application version                           | 1.0.0                      |
| title_id          | The application ID                                | 0000000000000000           |
| dlc_base_title_id | The base ID of all the application's DLC          | title_id + 0x1000          |
| lang (object)     | Different names/authors depending of the language | values above for all langs |

| Language codes      | Corresponding names    |
|:-------------------:|:----------------------:|
| en-US               | American English       |
| en-GB               | British English        |
| ja                  | Japanese               |
| fr                  | French                 |
| de                  | German                 |
| es-419              | Latin-American Spanish |
| es                  | Spanish                |
| it                  | Italian                |
| nl                  | Dutch                  |
| fr-CA               | Canadian French        |
| pt                  | Portuguese             |
| ru                  | Russian                |
| ko                  | Korean                 |
| zh-TW               | Chinese (Traditional)  |
| zh-CN               | Chinese (Simplified)   |

- Example with specific languages:

```toml
[package]
name = "Multi-language"
version = "0.2.0"
authors = ["XorTroll"]
edition = "2018"

[package.metadata.nx.nro]
nacp = { name = "A", author = "B", version = "0.2 beta", lang = { ja = { name = "J" }, es = { author = "X" }, it = { name = "I", author = "T" } } }
```

```bash
Names/authors produced above:

- Japanese: "J", "B"
- Spanish: "A", "X"
- Italian: "I", "T"
- Other languages: "A", "B"
```

> Note: only `name` and `author` fields can be language-specific

#### NSP

Projects which generate sysmodule NSP exefs packages need a single, mandatory field for the NPDM data:

- Example:

```toml
[package]
name = "Project"
version = "0.2.10"
authors = ["XorTroll"]
edition = "2018"

[package.metadata.nx.nsp]
npdm = "npdm.json"
```

> Note: the NPDM JSON file follows the same format used in most other homebrews (check projects like [Atmosphere](https://github.com/Atmosphere-NX/Atmosphere/blob/master/stratosphere/sm/sm.json), [emuiibo](https://github.com/XorTroll/emuiibo/blob/master/emuiibo/npdm.json), [ldn_mitm](https://github.com/spacemeowx2/ldn_mitm/blob/master/ldn_mitm/res/app.json)...) and, like with the paths in the NRO format, it must be relative to the project's directory

## Credits

- [linkle](https://github.com/MegatonHammer/linkle) libraries as the core element of this project
- [cargo-count](https://github.com/kbknapp/cargo-count) as the example followed to make a cargo subcommand project

Commit message:

Bye xargo, hello cargo build-std

README.md, after:

# cargo-nx

## Introduction

`cargo-nx` is a simple build command for projects based on this organization's libraries and tools, to avoid having to mess with makefiles, scripts or having several copies of the same linker/target files for every single project, while also including support for generating various formats after projects are compiled.

## Installation

Assuming you have Rust and `cargo` installed, it's just a matter of two steps:

1) If not already installed, install `rust-src`:

    ```bash
    rustup component add rust-src
    ```

2) Install `cargo-nx`:

    ```bash
    cargo install cargo-nx --git https://github.com/aarch64-switch-rs/cargo-nx
    ```

## Usage

First of all, the program can be executed as `cargo-nx` or simply as a cargo subcommand, `cargo nx`. It's quite similar to the normal `cargo build` subcommand.

Available parameters/flags:

- `-r`, `--release`: Builds on release profile, same as the normal `cargo build --release` option.

- `-p <path>`, `--path=<path>`: Specifies a path with a crate to build (containing `Cargo.toml`, etc.), since the current directory is used by default otherwise.

- `-tp <triple>`, `--triple=<triple>`: Specifies the target triple, which is "aarch64-none-elf" by default.

- `-ctg`, `--use-custom-target`: Notifies the program to not use the default target JSON/linker script, which can be used to use custom ones.

- `-v`, `--verbose`: Displays extra information during the build process.

### Build formats

Build format fields used for building must be placed placed inside `[package.metadata.nx.<format>]` in `Cargo.toml`. These fields vary depending on the project's format.

The program itself detects the target format when parsing `Cargo.toml`. Note that multiple formats at the same time are not currently supported.

Projects without specific build format fields, like libraries, can also be compiled. This can be useful to later generate custom executables instead of being generated by this subcommand.

#### NRO

Projects which generate homebrew NRO binaries don't have any mandatory fields, but only optional ones.

- Example:

```toml
[package]
name = "Project"
version = "0.1.0"
authors = ["XorTroll"]
edition = "2018"

[package.metadata.nx.nro]
romfs = "romfs_dir"
icon = "icon.jpg"
nacp = { name = "Sample project", author = "XorTroll", version = "0.1 beta" }
```

> Note: the `romfs` and `icon` fields must point to items located relative to the project's directory

The fields present on the `nacp` object, all of them optional, are the following:

| Field             | Description                                       | Default value              |
|:----------------- |:-------------------------------------------------:| --------------------------:|
| name              | The application name                              | Unknown Application        |
| author            | The application author                            | Unknown Author             |
| version           | The application version                           | 1.0.0                      |
| title_id          | The application ID                                | 0000000000000000           |
| dlc_base_title_id | The base ID of all the application's DLC          | title_id + 0x1000          |
| lang (object)     | Different names/authors depending of the language | values above for all langs |

| Language codes      | Corresponding names    |
|:-------------------:|:----------------------:|
| en-US               | American English       |
| en-GB               | British English        |
| ja                  | Japanese               |
| fr                  | French                 |
| de                  | German                 |
| es-419              | Latin-American Spanish |
| es                  | Spanish                |
| it                  | Italian                |
| nl                  | Dutch                  |
| fr-CA               | Canadian French        |
| pt                  | Portuguese             |
| ru                  | Russian                |
| ko                  | Korean                 |
| zh-TW               | Chinese (Traditional)  |
| zh-CN               | Chinese (Simplified)   |

- Example with specific languages:

```toml
[package]
name = "Multi-language"
version = "0.2.0"
authors = ["XorTroll"]
edition = "2018"

[package.metadata.nx.nro]
nacp = { name = "A", author = "B", version = "0.2 beta", lang = { ja = { name = "J" }, es = { author = "X" }, it = { name = "I", author = "T" } } }
```

```bash
Names/authors produced above:

- Japanese: "J", "B"
- Spanish: "A", "X"
- Italian: "I", "T"
- Other languages: "A", "B"
```

> Note: only `name` and `author` fields can be language-specific

#### NSP

Projects which generate sysmodule NSP exefs packages need a single, mandatory field for the NPDM data:

- Example:

```toml
[package]
name = "Project"
version = "0.2.10"
authors = ["XorTroll"]
edition = "2018"

[package.metadata.nx.nsp]
npdm = "npdm.json"
```

> Note: the NPDM JSON file follows the same format used in most other homebrews (check projects like [Atmosphere](https://github.com/Atmosphere-NX/Atmosphere/blob/master/stratosphere/sm/sm.json), [emuiibo](https://github.com/XorTroll/emuiibo/blob/master/emuiibo/npdm.json), [ldn_mitm](https://github.com/spacemeowx2/ldn_mitm/blob/master/ldn_mitm/res/app.json)...) and, like with the paths in the NRO format, it must be relative to the project's directory

## Credits

- [linkle](https://github.com/MegatonHammer/linkle) libraries as the core element of this project
- [cargo-count](https://github.com/kbknapp/cargo-count) as the example followed to make a cargo subcommand project
